Refactor: Extend ipython-sql (#36)
open-contracting/kingfisher-colab: docs/changelog.rst

Changelog
=========

0.3.0 (Unreleased)
------------------

Changed
~~~~~~~

- Refactor to build upon `ipython-sql <https://pypi.org/project/ipython-sql/>`__.
  Removes several functions that can be replaced with direct usage of ipython-sql magics in the notebook,

>   and replace all remaining sql calls with calls to ipython-sql.

Reviewer: Put paragraph text on a single line. It's cumbersome to edit a paragraph that's split on multiple lines, and text editors can do word wrapping.

  Replacements (must run ``%load_ext sql`` first, and ``%config SqlMagic.autopandas = True`` to get a pandas ``DataFrame``):

>   * :meth:`ocdskingfishercolab.create_connection` — replaced by using an ipython-sql connection string, e.g. ``%sql postgresql://user:pass@host/db``

Reviewer: Use `-  ` instead of `* ` for consistency with other changelog entries.

Reviewer: For all these removed functions, :meth: will refer to nothing and, I think, will cause a warning in the Sphinx build. We might as well just put double backticks.

Author: I don't see any warnings in the Sphinx build.

`:meth:` is formatted differently to double backticks (it's black):

![Screenshot from 2020-12-08 11-21-24](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/634/101477749-8f071780-3947-11eb-8224-3fb4e1072208.png)

(But, we might prefer the method names that aren't links to look different to those with working links).

Reviewer: Let's use double backticks to visually distinguish old methods.

>   * :meth:`ocdskingfishercolab.execute_statment`, :meth:`ocdskingfishercolab.get_dataframe_from_cursor` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * :meth:`ocdskingfishercolab.execute_statement`, :meth:`ocdskingfishercolab.get_dataframe_from_cursor` and
```

>     :meth:`ocdskingfishercolab.get_dataframe_from_query` — replaced by sql magic from ipython-sql, e.g. ``%sql SELECT a FROM b``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :meth:`ocdskingfishercolab.get_dataframe_from_query` — replaced by ipython-sql's ``%sql`` magic, e.g. ``%sql SELECT a FROM b``
```

>   * :meth:`ocdskingfishercolab.get_list_from_query` — replaced by :meth:`get_ipython_sql_resultset_from_query`. This returns an ipython-sql ResultSet, which can behave broadly like a list, but also has other features.

Reviewer: Add link to ResultSet documentation?

Author: There doesn't seem to be explicit docs on the ResultSet, just [implicitly in the examples](https://pypi.org/project/ipython-sql/#examples), and a [short docstring in the code](https://github.com/catherinedevlin/ipython-sql/blob/b24ac6e9410416eafde86ae22fd8d6f34acbe05d/src/sql/run.py#L99) that doesn't get extracted anywhere.

I suggest updating the sentence to add a bit more explanation:

``` rst
This returns an `ipython-sql ResultSet <https://pypi.org/project/ipython-sql/#examples>`__, the type returned by the ``%sql%`` magic when ``autopandas`` is off. It behaves like a list, but with extra methods.
```

Reviewer: Okay, sounds good.

>   * :meth:`ocdskingfishercolab.download_package_from_query` has lost the params argument, and will pull variables from the local scope instead (to be consisent with the ipython-sql sql magic).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * :meth:`ocdskingfishercolab.download_package_from_query` no longer takes a ``params`` argument, and instead uses variables from the local scope, to be consisent with the ipython-sql's ``%sql`` magic.
```
